Clarified Connection Management doc on connection pooling (#202)
valkey-io/valkey-glide-docs: src/content/docs/how-to/connection-management.mdx

description: Understand GLIDE's asynchronous API, multiplexed connections, and when to create multiple clients for optimal performance.
---

GLIDE is an asynchronous client and uses a multiplex connection to interact with Valkey.

> This means <u>all requests are sent through a single connection</u>. The Rust core takes advantage of Valkey's pipelining capabilities to improve performance.

Reviewer: nit: For cluster mode, a connection is kept for each node.  So maybe "through a single connection per node".

Author: This has been added to the "When to Use Multiple Clients" section

This guide will go over how to manage your GLIDE clients for the optimal performance.

## Connection Pooling

If you are coming from other Valkey or Redis clients (such as Jedis, redis-py, or go-redis), you may expect a connection pool approach. GLIDE handles this differently.

> For most workloads, **use a single GLIDE client instance for the best performance**. Connection pooling is not needed.

Reviewer: Instead of "connection pooling is not needed", maybe we should say "GLIDE does not currently use a traditional connection pool" since we have a backlog item to design and implement a connection pool in the future.

Author: I removed this and reworded "When to Use Multiple Clients". Lmk what you think.

> This is because GLIDE leverages Valkey's [pipelining](https://valkey.io/topics/pipelining/) capabilities. It can efficiently handles large amounts of requests, even 

Reviewer: nit: "It can efficiently handle" not "It can efficiently handles".

> from multiple threads, over a single connection.

Reviewer 2: can we fix this extra newline?

## When to Use Multiple Clients

Due to the multiplex design, a single connection becomes a bottleneck when executing commands that can block the connection. Currently, it is recommended
to use separate clients in these situations.

Be aware that in cluster mode, GLIDE maintains a connection to each node in the cluster; it is not scalable to open a large number of clients.

### Reading and Writing Large Values

GLIDE's multiplex connection means that requests are processed sequentially.
Thus, large requests can delay the processing of subsequent smaller requests.
When dealing with large values or transactions, it is advisable to use a separate client to prevent delays for other requests.

### Blocking Commands

Opening a new client for each blocking command is recommended to avoid blocking the connection.

Blocking commands, such as [BLPOP](https://valkey.io/commands/blpop/), block the connection until a condition is met (e.g., the list is not empty for BLPOP).
Using a blocking command will prevent all subsequent commands on the pipeline from executing until the block is lifted.

### Pub/Sub Commands

> Pub/Sub commands like `SUBSCRIBE`, `PSUBSCRIBE`, and `SSUBSCRIBE` can block the connection and prevent other commands from executing.

Reviewer: This makes it sound like Pub/Sub blocks the connection, but that is only the case at higher throughput and applies to all commands which could block each other.  Maybe we could replace this sentence with "For high-throughput Pub/Sub workloads, consider using a dedicated client to reduce latency on regular commands"?

Author: ```suggestion
Pub/Sub commands like `SUBSCRIBE`, `PSUBSCRIBE`, and `SSUBSCRIBE` can block the connection and decrease the througput. Consider using separate clients for Pub/Sub for the best performance.
```

> Pub/Sub commands like `SUBSCRIBE`, `PSUBSCRIBE`, and `SSUBSCRIBE` can block the connection and decrease the througput. Consider using separate clients for Pub/Sub for the best performance.

Reviewer: Typo on "throughput".  Also, still think it is inaccurate to say it blocks the connection.  At high throughput, any command, including Pub/Sub, will decrease throughput of the connection.  Maybe "High-throughput Pub/Sub workloads can decrease overall throughput on a shared connection. Consider using a dedicated client for Pub/Sub for the best performance.".

Author: ```suggestion
High-throughput Pub/Sub workloads can decrease overall throughput on a shared connection. Consider using a dedicated client for Pub/Sub for the best performance.
```
